what if I told you that keyword research
as you know it is dead I'm Brendan
huffard today on a hundred days of SEO
we're gonna talk about keyword research
for SEO is it that we'll find out let's
do it don't freak out keyword research
for SEO isn't dead it's just totally
different from the way people have
taught it and the way that SEO research
has been done since I started SEO
starting back in 2010 so let's go hop
right over here in my computer and get
into it what's up yeah we are in my
computer I believe that keyword research
the way it's been taught for so long is
completely dead today we're going to
talk about how to do keyword research
the smart way my goal is to turn you
from this sad keyword researching pug
into Napoleon Dynamite's brother trying
to make you not jealous that he's been
on his computer doing topical research
all day now as without a lot of my
videos if you watch until the end I'm
gonna make a special offer for you it's
free you don't have to do anything you
don't have to opt in I don't want your
email address but it's pretty cool so
make sure you watch all the way to the
end because it's gonna give you the
context for what I want to help you with
if you're new here
shout out all my subscribers hear me say
this every video but the goal here is to
build not a publication not just have
subscribers watching but I want new
people to discover this so if you are
one of those people if you're new here
I'm Brendon Hufford hi how are you
I created SEO for the rest of us in a
hundred days of SEO I'm also the SEO
director at this badass agency in
Chicago I'm a former teacher I taught in
the classroom for 10 years pretty
regular dude data three kids married
shoutout to all the dads out there and
today in the next couple minutes you're
gonna learn two huge keyword research
mistakes what smart keyword research
looks like and the biggest secret right
now in SEO this is not a gimmick this is
actually something I've only seen maybe
one other person talking about and not
only am I going to tell you about that
in this video I'm also gonna link to the
next video that goes into it a little
bit deeper let's talk about some stuff
let's talk about keywords right we think
about keywords really being super
important the end-all be-all and that's
because of this right only 6% of content
ranks on page one in year one it's
really hard to rank for even a single
keyword
on the first page there's a lot of noise
out there but here's the thing this is
an example from Kindle preneur the
content that does rank on the first page
ranks for thousands of keywords right so
they're the top one their Kindle preneur
free book title generator tools that
thing ranks for almost 3000 keywords how
are you gonna do keyword research for
that can you can you do keyword research
can you do keyword research for the next
article that's almost twenty nine
hundred keywords no no you can't and
that's why I want to introduce kind of a
different topic today but first we have
to take a look back we have to go look
at old times now in the in the past it
was one keyword to one article that's
how Google did it if you're an OG like
me you remember the days that you would
get one keyword with one article and
that meant you had to create a separate
article for every different keyword you
wanted to rank for and what this led to
was a very vomit worthy tactic called
keyword stuffing where you would rank
better the more times you use the
keyword on the page and you ended up
with stuff like this we have the best
laptops in the market our laptops have
the lowest price and the best quality
the best laptops for business and the
best laptops for home and personally
used by our best laptops like ooh people
using blue running shoes every other
sentence no thanks but that's what
happened right and then Google came out
with PageRank and it was like hey maybe
there's more than one factor too then
like how many times they use the word on
the page and people start to understand
all right there's more that I need to do
here I need to make my content better
for humans and one of the ways we
figured out how to do that was with
plugins now this is a plug-in from back
in the day called easy WordPress SEO and
you notice this looks very similar to
how most SEO plugins look today you
thought they came up with that stuff nah
this is old-school like the title
contains the keyword the title begins
with the keyword you see you you
recognize this stuff from your SEO
plug-in title contains at least three
words etc etc and you could go through
all this up the title the URL the meta
the heading the content etc they even
had readability and LSI in there this
stuff isn't new this is super old stuff
but the problem is that contain all
these terrible ideas content contains at
least one bold keyword one italicized
keyword one underlined keyword you ended
up with this
really if you see a page like this today
you'll know that they're using the
old-school tactics of trying to just
underlined and bold their keywords it's
just like what what what are you doing
and don't get me wrong like I did this I
did this I I bought ez WP SEO right back
in the day and this is what it looks
like today
here it is in Yoast it's the same stuff
still trying to one article one keyword
I just showed you the best content ranks
for three thousand keywords how are you
gonna optimize an article with this
checklist based on one keyword when you
want to be ranking for three thousand
keywords now the problem is that like
most of what they tell you to do in
these plugins don't doesn't actually
help should I use my key phrase in the
title yes should I link out to other
things yes should I link to myself yes
should they make sure I'm not doubling
up writing about the same exact content
in the same way over and over and over
on my website absolutely but the rest of
these tips are garbage they're garbage
they don't correlate with ranking at all
they will not help you rank better
especially with using your keyword in
the first paragraph that's the worst
advice ever
it's terrible copyright it's bad for
humans I don't know why it's hot here's
a video from Joel clucky talking with
Ross Hudgens on siege media's show about
this I will link to that video in the
description as well you should
definitely watch the whole thing I mean
if there was one thing that people
watching this that I I wish they could
take away because I hear horror stories
of this all the time and you know like
I'm not as much on the content piece of
things the blogpost piece of things now
but I deal I talk to a lot of copiers
all the time in a lot of groups and I
get all kinds of posts where the tunngle
you know somebody some well-meaning SEO
is installed the Yoast plug-in and they
demand that it meets a certain you know
measure ability of like that's their
barometer and if the writer doesn't hit
that but I know we need to revise it if
there's one activity I wish we could get
rid of through this video it's that like
that is not the way to evaluate whether
or not a writer has hit the target for
the piece you wanted to put together
that like nice little red or orange or
green match that's not your barometer
for is this thing good for SEO that's
such a simplistic way of looking at and
that's now don't forget to keep watching
to the end like I told you I'm going to
help you with this you are going to get
my time that you you really can't even
buy to help you specifically with this
because I really want you to understand
where this is going now the future of
keyword research keyword research as we
used to do it is dead keyword optimizing
for a single keyword as we used to do it
is dead the future is topical research
get it
tropical it's topical we're trying we're
trying too hard here it's topical
research now how do i do topical
research i look at a lot of different
places right obviously i look at the
search engine results but i also look in
cora
i want to see like when somebody's
looking for something what did they
really want and I love that they
actually had write little posts in
course you can see like they asked a
question about hiring the wedding
photographer but then you get the nuance
of it you get all the context of it I
love answer the public right if if I'm
writing an article about how to learn
WordPress right but I had no idea that
there were all these things like people
are googling how to learn WordPress
without hosting that's crazy I had no
idea people thought you needed to buy
hosting to learn WordPress they don't
know about wordpress.com where you can
make a free wordpress blog
right that's something that I discovered
along the way here and that's why it's
so important to do this
topical research to see the whole topic
and make sure we're really addressing
the whole topic when we're writing an
article that's how you get the rankings
for those 3,000 keywords now if I'm
writing about fun things to do in
Chicago I can see that it's really
important to write about seasons right
in winter in December in November like
most people are looking this not really
in the summer they're really looking for
this hook because it's Chicago is
amazing in the summer that's where I
live right it's amazing in the summer
the things to do are obvious but also in
the winter hits it's like oh my god what
do we do here
what do we do now that we can't go
outside without you know the air hurting
our faces why do we live here right but
that's the article that you're writing
and now you have the the topical
research to understand I'm not just
looking oh there's a keyword fun things
to do in Chicago I should rank for that
no no no get the nuance of it look at
the whole topic and now look at these
are all sections that you can have in
your article in the winter fun things to
do in Chicago with kids fun things to do
in Chicago at night those should be
sections
of your article next I love to use
keywords everywhere it's a free
extension for Chrome and Firefox it kind
of aggregates a lot of what I'm already
talking about Google search Google
Trends ebay answer the public it pulls a
lot of information it's free it's not
super accurate compared to something
like an HR F's but it is extremely
helpful with topical research for
example here if I want to write about
how to podcast write what I want to look
at here's I now see that people are also
googling podcast hosting how to create a
podcast website how to listen to a
podcast that's interesting I didn't even
know that that would be something that
people are still wondering how to do
well so if I'm talking about how to
podcast I better tell people how to
listen to a podcast like all of these
things matter and all of these things
are super helpful because you want to
cover again the whole topic not just a
single keyword again here's another one
on intermittent fasting I'm using
keywords everywhere to pull this up if
I'm gonna write about intermittent
fasting I could also write about
intermittent fasting results
intermittent fasting benefits those
things could all go into one epic piece
of piller content or they could be
broken out two separate pieces of
content here's other places I like to
find research go in forums go into
mailing lists I love meetup groups and
blog comments on big industry blogs
obviously social media groups LinkedIn
Facebook looking at the replies to end
in your industry go find some page or
find some account look at the replies
not just their tweets but go under the
tweets and replies and look at the
replies to people the questions that are
asking and the answers they're getting
now this last one here the Amazon
reviews the three-star Amazon reviews is
probably my best hack that I want to
share with you for topical keyword
research so for example if I'm writing
an article on productivity this is one
of the most famous books on productivity
the power of habit by Charles Duhigg now
this is great to look at it but I also
notice there's 4815 reviews so what I'm
gonna do is look at how many of those
are five-star four three two and one and
what I want to start doing is looking at
the three star reviews a five star
review is usually just gonna be this
glorious like oh this is the best book
ever it changed my life one star reviews
I like this is a waste of time read this
blog post instead but the three star
reviews usually
have something really interesting in
here because what happened in the book
is it was just a collection of stories
to this person right to speed-reader
five one five what they were really
looking for is concrete tactics or
strategies so if I'm writing an article
about productivity I don't want to just
tell stories it looks like that really
irritated this person that Charles
Duhigg was just telling stories and
going on and connecting the stories to
stories - stories to stories like I they
wanted tactics and strategies to hack
their habits not just stories and that
was super important to them here's
another one again you see here ESPN Dave
awesome name is saying the same thing if
you've read Malcolm Gladwell's tipping
point or outliers you're gonna see
similar stories once you get the second
half of the book there's another person
looking for a list of tactics and
strategies and not finding them there
look at this another three star review
now these are separated these are the
one the previous reviews from 2017 this
is from 2013 like the three chapters are
interesting and useful but the thing
that makes people hate this book is the
stories so if you're thinking of writing
about productivity you're planning on
telling a bunch of long stories and
going really deep into stuff that like
that like people just want to know how
to change their habits have a specific
thing the intent behind this and the
topic that you should be writing about
is tactical and strategic it is not just
dragging things out with long stories
and examples of what you're talking
about
so even if you just read this so there
you go saved you money unless you enjoy
random success stories then this book
would be a great read for you so we
don't want to just do success stories we
want to when we're doing topical
research we want to look for painful
emotions right and that's what we're
looking in the Amazon three star reviews
and everything we see on forums we're
looking for these feelings because this
tells us when people are feeling this
stuff or we can read these feelings in
their their comments we understand these
are big pain points for them and then we
can write about that that's the core of
what we need to be writing about and to
do a deep dive on this look at things
like this is it their first time posting
some where are they replying to comments
what emotions do they seem to have I
love doing this in facebook groups get a
little sip of coffee here dee-licious
so I love doing this in facebook groups
and you see like when somebody comments
and then there's like 27 threaded
replies it's like oh I do the mr. Burnes
like excellent
and I like I can't wait because I know
that they just went really deep with
somebody back and forth and back and
forth and we want to note the pains that
came from their actions the reactions
their lack of actions and they did see
what they've tried see what hasn't
worked for them this is really good
topical research if you want to write
and you want to rank insert you have to
understand the pain points and why
people are searching for things so
here's kind of my topical research
checklist you're like Brendan summarize
all of that for me got you did I
leverage my own expertise did you look
on Quora did you look on answer the
public did you look at the people also
asked and the the searches related to in
Google did you review the recommended
searches in YouTube and then finally
like I said do do some of that pain deep
dive right especially the Amazon
three-star reviews now the genius move
here is the most important thing that
we're gonna talk to you about and I got
another video if you check the
description or you watch kind of the end
card of this video I got another video
for you on this so we're not gonna go
super deep right now but the genius move
here is matching the search intent
shoutouts all my Cruel Intentions fans
but matching the intent of the search
what are they actually looking for like
when people bought I'll give you an
example from Amazon when people bought
Charles Duhigg book they were really
looking for strategies and tactics and
what they actually got was stories he
didn't match the intent perfectly now
that's obviously a weird example but for
Google we have to match their intent
they're using keywords to search but
they have feelings behind it and they
have intentions behind it we have to
match that intent so make sure you check
out that video as well but before you go
before you go Napoleon I want you to
tell me in the comments below how are
you struggling with keyword research
right now like I said the model of
keyword research in the model of
keywords we've had in the past is dead
so let me know in the in the comments
below go right below this video let me
know the topic you are writing about you
know so let me know your website let me
know the topic your write about and I
will personally do some research for you
now I'm only it doesn't say on the
screen I'm only gonna do this for the
first 10 people the first 10 people that
watch this whole video and are seeing
this and comment below with what there
writing about I will do some topical
research for you you will get all of my
expertise that things clients pay me
thousands and thousands of dollars for I
will do that for you in the comments
below I'm stoked to see what you put
down there I've been Brennan Huffer
don't forget to work hard be nice to
people and don't get too lost trying to
create something that matters
[Music]